So open up 02-optimistic-ui.
We'll cancel this server and
run node dev 2,
to get our dev server for
the second exercise
going we should be on port 4002.
And again, because of the way
that cookies and Things work,
you're going to need to log in again.
So it's kody@remix.run,
kodylovesyou, and we're in.
All data is fresh and it's awesome.
So for optimistic UI, I think I will go
into this a little bit after the exercise.
I'll talk a little bit more
about examples of Optimistic UI.
Actually, I take that back.
We're gonna talk about this right now.
I'll demonstrate optimistic UI to you.
This is kind of what's in
the background information.
But let's look at Twitter as
an example of Optimistic UI.
If I say this is a test tweet.
I'll probably get a couple of
likes on this before I delete it.
But for the fun of it, let's say that
I'm on a slow network connection.
So I'm throttling to slow 3G and
I hit that favorite button.
Notice how it instantly turns red, even
though you can see in the network tab,
it's taking at least two seconds for
that request to happen.
And then if I unfavorite it,
same thing, it unfavorites right away,
even though it takes some time for
that to actually happen.
This is called Optimistic UI and
it makes users trust your app more.
It just makes the whole
experience feel a lot better.
So what happens,
this actually is pretty straightforward,
pretty easy to do, because you literally
just say when they click on this,
then set state to your favorite ID and
then send the Fetch Request.
Here's the challenge though, what if
the user clicks a bunch of times and
you have race conditions
with those fetch requests.
Or even more scary, I don't know
if Twitter has a bug with that.
So let's just make sure that is correct.
Okay so what if, I delete this tweet over
here but I've still got it open over here.
I'm looking at notifications or
something like that.
So then I hit unfavorite.
And it unfavorites right away but
then it actually favorites again,
saying sorry that tweet has been deleted.
I cannot unfavorite this tweet
no matter how hard I try,
I've favorited this forever.
And so this is where your
optimism has been misplaced.
Things are like they're not
what you expected them to be.
And so that set state to change the heart
to favorite it or to unfavored it.
Now becomes a little more tricky because
you actually have to track that fetch
request to make sure it completes
properly and revert what you've done.
This becomes especially hard when
the user does something like this.
I'm not sure what state that's
supposed to end in but, yeah,
I guess it would stay favorite and
be correct.
So this is what makes
Optimistic UI difficult,
is this rollback experience.
It makes it difficult
unless you're using remix.
[LAUGH] Because remix makes building
Optimistic UI really awesome.
So that's what you're gonna
be building for this example,
we're gonna be working in
the invoice ID file again.
And I think that basically what we want,
right now we're not gonna solve
the problem where the form should
get cleared out, that'll come soon.
But as soon as the user
hits Create Deposit,
that deposit should show
up in that list right away.
And you're actually not gonna be
adding a ton of code for this one.
But I want you to test out
what happens if it fails.
So go into the action and like throw
an error or something to make that fail or
or maybe return a response that just
says you know, failure or whatever,
so that we can test what
rollback is like as well.
And I think that that is
everything to get you going.
So have a good time on exercise two.